So,
the core tags provide a set of core functionality
for use in any JavaServer Page.
You can break these tags down to several categories,
the first of which we'll take a look at,
the conditional tags.
So this is the home page of the application,
and on this page we'll provide a welcome message for the user.
If you remember,
we get that welcome message by adding the user inside the
doGet call in the ControllerServlet.
Suppose there was no user.
If we take this code out and then redeploy the application,
if we browse back to the page and refresh,
we'll see the page simply says Welcome.
What we'd like to do is to be able to place a welcome
message when we have an anonymous user.
So in that case, we need to detect if there is a user,
and if so welcome that user, otherwise maybe just welcome the anonymous user.
We can do that from within the page itself by using one of the conditional tags,
the if tag.
So what we need to do here is to detect that there is a user,
and if so display this welcome message, and if there's not,
display another welcome message just welcoming the anonymous user.
So the if tag looks something like this.
We say less than c:if, and there's a test.
And in this test, we'd like to see if the user exists inside the scope,
and if so display a welcome message.
So for that to work inside the test, we add an expression.
Of this expression, we'd like to see if the user variable is valid,
so the user is an object and it has a name property.
The expression language has an empty operator that we can apply to properties,
and this will return true or false depending on the value of that property.
So for example if it's a string and the string is empty, it'll return false.
If it's an object and the object doesn't exist,
it'll return false, otherwise the thing returns true.
So we can say simply if empty user.name, or in our case if not empty user.name.
So if the user exists and the name exists, empty will return false.
Putting the not in front of it will turn that into a true,
and we should still see the message Welcome
username if the user was in the scope.
We can also do the opposite to welcome the anonymous user,
so I can just copy these three lines, paste it into the code,
and then say if empty user.name, and simply say Welcome whoever you are.
Again if we deploy this and go to the browser and refresh the page,
we get Welcome whoever you are.
If I go back into the code, go back to the controller,
and comment those lines,
so the user is now being set and redeploy the application,
go back into the browser, and then refresh,
then we get still get Welcome Kevin.
Now obviously seeing both ifs here is slightly disconcerting.
We'd like to use a construct similar to if-else,
and we'll see how we do that in a moment.
So the if tag is useful when we have a single thing we want
to check on a single piece of output.
As soon as we end up with multiple ifs,
then the code looks slightly odd and becomes much harder to maintain.
To cope with those scenarios, we have the choose, when, otherwise set of tags.
These tags are similar to the if tag in that they have a test.
If the test is true, then the body of the tag is executed.
If the test is false, then nothing happens.
The tags are a set of parent-child tags,
so the parent tag is choose, and there are nested when tags,
and there's also a nested otherwise tag.
This is similar to a switch statement in Java.
So the tags would work something like this.
We'd say less than c:choose, and inside here we'd have c:when.
Again when has a test,
and the test is similar to the test we have below for the if tag,
but now rather than having multiple if tags,
I can simply have an otherwise tag.
I can then get rid of the if tags,
and we change the text slightly here to prove we're using a different tag,
so we'll put an exclamation mark at the end of the output for both of these.
And again if I redeploy, go to the browser and refresh,
we should see similar output.
So we see Welcome Kevin back in the controller.
If I remove Kevin from the scope, and again redeploy and refresh,
we see the same messages before, Welcome whoever you are,
but this time with the extra exclamation mark at the end.
So although we're not showing it here, with the choose tag,
we can have multiple whens.
Each when is tested in turn.
The first one that succeeds gets to execute inside the tag.
Anything else is then bypassed and no other code executes as part of that single choose tag.